But we can solve the same problem effectively using the
sliding window technique.
The idea is if we closely look at all the
sub array sum, we can conclude one thing. For the sub array,
1, 5, -1 and the sub array 5, -1 and 6
The elements 5 and -1 are common
And for the sub array, 5,-1, 6 and sub
array -1, 6, 3 the elements -1 and 6 are common.
Similarly for the sub array -1, 6, 3 and the
sub array 6, 3, 2 the elements 6,3 are common.
So using this analysis, we can derive a better solution
to this problem.
That is calculate the first sub array sum which is
1 + 5+ -1 which is 5 and
in the second sub array elements 5 and -1 are common.
So we can keep the previous sub array sum and
subtract the uncommon element from the first sub array
And here it is .
So subtract 1 from 5 and at the new element
in this sub array which is 6.
So 5 -1 +6 which is 10 and
10 is the new sub array sum
and we have calculated the second sub array sum
without any iteration
Now for the third sub array, we can subtract
5 from 10 and add the new element 3
So it is 10 - 5 + 3 which is 8
Similarly for the last sub array, we can subtract
-1  from 8 and add the new element 2
So it is 8 - -1 + 2 which is 11
Here we are keeping the k size window
And whenever we finish our calculation, we are sliding the
window by leaving one element from the left sub array
and adding one element in the right sub array
Hence we are calling this as a sliding window technique.
Now let us write the code for this sliding window
technique.
Let us write a function sub array sum which takes the array,
size of array n and size of sub array k
as the input.
And this is the input array here
And let k equal to three
first let us mark the window starting point wstart at
the beginning
So write
wstart equal to zero and initially set the
sub array sum. So write subsum equal to zero. Now using
a for loop from i equal to zero to,  i less than n
add each element in subsum till we reach
the window size k
So write subsum += array[i]
the elements 1, 5 and -1 will be added and
the sum will be 5.
And when we reach the window size, that is when
i greater than or equal to k-1
We will have this sum of one sub array
so we can print the sub array sum.
And also we need to subtract the starting element of
the window from subsum.
Here the starting element of the window is 1
so 1 will be subtracted from 5 and it will
become 4.
So write subsum -= array[wstart]
finally move wstart to next position which is
the starting point of the next window and the same
process will continue.
So now in the next iteration, 6 will be added
and subsum becomes 10.
Here we have reached the window size. So print second subsum 10.
and subtract 5 from 10 and it becomes 5
and move the window start
to the next position. Now 3 will be added
to 5 and it will become 8 and we have
reached the window size. So 8 will be printed and
then -1 will be subtracted from 8 and it
will become 9 and move
the wstart to the next position. Now 2 will
be added to 9 and subsum
will be 11 and we will print it
Now let us compare the complexity of the normal brute force
approach and sliding window approach.
In brute force the outer loop will run n times
and inner subsum calculating loop will run k times
So the time complexity of this brute force approach
is O(n*k)
But in the sliding window approach, we just used a
single for loop
So the time complexity is just O(n)
So whenever we have to calculate something on sub array
or sub string, instead of brute force approach, we can
use the sliding window technique to build an effective solution
So in this video we have learnt about the sliding
window technique and its importance. From the next video, let us solve some problems using sliding window pattern.